One of the pioneering efforts in that direction
has been made by the great physiologist, marine
physiologist, Professor Schollander, here at
Scripps, who has demonstrated that the most
difficult experiments can be carried out even on
relatively small ships. And he was the leading
spirit in acquiring the ship Alpha Helix, which is
a floating laboratory, rather small. goes all
over the world and carries out on the spot
particularly marine, biochemical, biological
investigations that could not be done back home
because you need to look at things right then and
there. If you pickle things and bring them back,
it's just dead stuff. So that has set a fantastic
example in that field. Also in physical
oceanography and the geological aspects,
there's quite a lot you can do on board. There, I
think... the United States is somewhat lagging
behind. That aspect is much more stressed by
nations that have large ships that are
comfortable, have laboratories that can operate
even when the sea is a little rough, like the USSR.
But an exception from the general rule here is the
deep-sea drilling. Deep-sea drilling is done
from big platforms, and therefore they have good
laboratories on board, and much of the important
preliminary work is done on shipboard by
scientists so that one knows when one comes back
directly what one has, and one can do some planning
for the next, maybe for the next drill hole from
what you get in the first with some
sophistication.
Would you, what
would you adjudge to be then the more important
developments that have occurred in oceanography
over the last, let's say since you began, in terms
of analyzing data?
Well, as far as analyzing data goes, there are, of
course, a large number of refined instruments
that have been developed, very elegant
instrumentation that permits much more accurate
measurements, and for treatment of the data, then
obvious computer developments. But that is not
the most important. I think the most important is
ideas and completely new techniques that has
opened up new realms for investigation. And there
you have again deep sea drilling that's permitted
us to look at the ocean in the third dimension. And
that makes, I think, the statement wrong that the
exploration of the ocean is over. Exploration,
the first guess at what the very surface looks like
of the ocean floor is perhaps done in many areas,
not all. But it's opened up a completely new third
dimension. distribution in depth, the whole
geological history of the ocean. And there is much
left to do there. So that is one of the
breakthroughs in new techniques that have opened
up completely new vistas in the field. Other very
important developments is the deep toe
instrumentation that Professor Spies at this
institution has developed, where you can look at
the sea floor very closely, and therefore see
detail and measure things that you could never
even guess at when you try to do it from the surface
as you did in the past.
Those are some of the most important things. Other
important tools, of course, are things like
anchored buoys, big buoys that can collect and
transmit data continually. That is a field where
only the surface has been scratched, and where an
example of how the lack of measurements at many
points at the same time limits our knowledge is the
equatorial current system, for example. There
is, as you know, an undercurrent along the equator
running under the surface about 50 meters depth,
which is fantastically swift. It's as fast as a
Gulf Stream and carries a larger volume of water
than the Gulf Stream. It's one of the most
important flows water in the world. That plays a
crucial role for the whole productivity of the
equator. That is the basis for the enormous
fisheries potential and lots of ramifications.
The whole mechanism, the dynamics of that system
is very little known, practically unknown, and
not very well understood, mainly due to the fact
that there have never been observations at
sufficient number of points at the same time that
permit you to know where the thing is. Nobody knows
if it's snaking through the ocean, if it separates
into blobs, if it undulates like a snake up and
down, what the periodicity is of these motions and
what is the dynamics of the whole system. To solve
such a problem you have to have either something
like a dozen ships operating at the same time or a
large number of buoys or some similar things.
So that is just an example of how synoptic
measurements carried out with measurements with
a large number of points at the same time for the
solution of some of the major problems in the ocean
have yet to be done in the future. What do you see for
your future? Oh, I'm an existentialist, as I told
you. So I'm doing today what I see as the most
important things, and I have very little idea
where that will lead me tomorrow. But I'm almost
dreaming of coming back sometime for a third take
on the problems, again, associated with the
equatorial very exciting equatorial
circulation and its effects on sedimentation and
on the record in the past because it's one of the
most spectacular global mechanisms where the
pulse of the Earth essentially is recorded and
where you can get an integrated picture of what
happened to the Earth as a planet over a very long
time and understand how the climatic mechanisms
of the Earth So that is, in oceanography, one of the
most interesting things I look forward to.
Another one that we are working on right now, which
has somewhat of a social implications, is the
resources of the ocean, the mineral resources of
the ocean, and their importance for the world, the
future world. That was something I wanted to ask
you about. I was going to ask you in terms of what you
thought your major accomplishment was thus far.
What is the mineral potential of the ocean? Do you
answer the guess? Well, there are several
different aspects that are interesting. There
are questions of phosphates, for example,
deposited in the relative nearshore area. But one
of the major potential resources discussed
today, which is the focus of our interest, also
from a scientific point of view, is the huge
deposits of copper-nickel ore, copper-nickel
incorporated in the normally more innocuous
manganese nodules in a specific narrow zone
parallel to the equator, essentially, in the
Pacific, and perhaps also in the Indian Ocean. An
ore that, just in one stroke, has doubled the
world's known resources of copper and nickel. And
one thing that interests us much, too, is that
associated problems. Everybody realizes, from a
resource point of view, that this is important.
The challenge to me lies in In other associated
uses of the deposits that these nodules lie in,
they have very interesting characteristics. And
one of the things we have been playing with is to
investigate
or to develop an interesting type of ceramic from
this sediment, which is extremely lightweight,
porous, highly insulating, and relatively high
flexure strength. So that is interesting.
building material for earthquake-proof
buildings with very high thermal insulation and
energy conservation properties. I don't know if
it will ever work out practically. You never know
that with the early developments, but that's a
type of interesting secondary approach to new
mineral resources on the sea floor.
A sizable number of critics have maintained that
the extraction of minerals from the ocean will be
so expensive that this sort of resource is
limited. I take it you disagree with that? Well, I
wouldn't know because I'm not an economist, I'm
not an engineer, and it's staggering for me to
think of the difficulties in designing tools for
retrieval of these ores at the necessary rate of
something like a couple of million tons per year
for each unit involved. But I think the best
testimony to the practical possibilities is that
all of the major
mining companies in the world essentially are
involved in one of the major consortia that have
been formed to explore these possibilities, and
that they who are experts in the field actual
practical mining, judge the possibilities good
enough so that they have invested many millions of
dollars into this and are continuing to do it at an
increased rate. I think when I talk to these
people, my friends among them, it is clear that the
more conservative among them think that it might
be touch and go, but that it's promising enough to
pursue for sure at the present time.
I take it then that you feel as if your career will
now, again to use that awful word, drift back into
the ocean rather than float back out to space. No, I
don't think so. It will remain in the ocean as it
always has been and without being limited to that.
So I foresee to divide my time between problems in
the ocean, in the solar system as a whole, also in
more fundamental questions in material science,
which interests me very much. And exactly in terms
of material science? Well, again, there I want to
learn and understand better the fundamental
properties of the
materials that we study and use on the ocean floor.
and that we see forming in space. These are very
complex processes in nature, and you have to look
at the underlying more simple processes in the
laboratory in order to understand them, and the
theory that is developed for more simple things.
So this combination of three fields, I think, is,
to my mind, an appealing and productive one. I just
have one more question about in terms of three
fields. Do you think it will be possible in
scientific training in the future for a scientist
to switch or to move from field to field, let's say,
as you've done, Roger Revelle's done, Isaac's
done? Do you think that will become less possible?
I don't think so. No, I think if you acquire a good
fundamental training, the characteristic of a
good fundamental training is that it gives you the
tools to both move in in different fields of
science and also to adapt to all the developments
that take place in science unless you have such a
training and insight then you are lost after 15
years when developers have run away from you so you
both must keep in touch both in time and in space
with the developments so you see the role will
continues as the scientist is journalist as a
Generalist with a broad base sharpened to a point.
Because it's dangerous if you
are too general, then it's dangerous you could
become a dilettante. You have to have some things
that you really are better in than anybody else.
Mississippi by J.B. Saunders. Ouachita by W.T.
Rivera. Lincoln by E.B. Boyd. Craighead by J.M.
Steele. Clark by J.L. Browning. Benton by J.W.
Richards. Hempstead by J.N. Barden. Newton by
M.W. Vance. Newton by M.W. Vance or W.W. Vance.
Franklin by... H.T. Wilson, St. Francis by G.P.
Slaughter, Independence by G.L. Massey, Sharp by
G.T. Wilkersham, Carroll by Alfred Moss, Carroll
by Alfred Moss, Scott by J.H. Palmer, Scott by J.H.
Palmer, Cross by J.M. Steele, Baxter by J.T.
Wilson, Dallas by L.J. Hogg, Fulton by J.T.
Wilson, Madison by N.B. Pierce, Madison by N.B.
Pierce, Washington by N.B. Pierce, Sorber by J.S.
Gray, Nevada by E.P. Boyd, Newton by M.W. Vance,
Newton by M.W. Vance, Calhoun by L.J. Hogg, Dorsey
by E.H. Owen, Lawrence by H.T. Wickersham,
Faulkner by E.D. Boyd. Page 65, still 1874.
Columbia by Boyd, Selene by Boyd, Clark by
Browning, Polk five times by M.M. Morris,
Montgomery four times by B.D. Johnson, Columbia
by E.B. Boyd, Marion by Alfred Moss, Clayton by
J.M. Steele, Marion by Alfred Moss, Clark by
Browning, Marion by J. Frank Wilson, Marion by
Browning, Columbia by Boyd, Columbia by Boyd,
Calhoun by, looks like Hogg, Hot Springs
by J.N. Harris, Union by Avera, A-V-E-R-A, or
Alva, A-V-E-R-A, I think, Howard by Borden,
Sebastian by Douglas, White by Daniels,
C-H-I-C-O-T,
It looks like it's E-U-D-R-A by E.R. Chipman
twice. Pulaski by E.D. Boyd. Jefferson by G.G.
Curliss.
Pulaski by E.D. Boyd. Jefferson by G.G. Curley.
Clark by Browning. Polk by Norris. Short by
Wickersham. Fulton by Boyd. White by Benton, Pike
by Browning, Clark by Browning, Clark by Boyd,
Clark by Boyd, Washita by Hogg, Selene by Brigham,
B-R-I-N-G-H-A-M. It might be, of course, be
Bingham, B-I-N-G-H-A-M. And Washita by Hogg,
still 1874. Montgomery twice by Johnson. Ozark.
Looks like it's Wells Creek Ozark by Boyd, Pulaski
by Boyd, Saleen by Boyd, Conway by Benton, Union by
Avera, Ouachita by Avera, Pulaski by Boyd,
Calhoun by Hogg, Randolph four times by W.R.
Carter, Fulton twice by Boyd, White by Daniel,
Sharp by Wickersham, Lance Lawrence by
Wickersham, White by Benton, Fulton by Boyd,
Pulaski by Boyd, Randolph by Carter, Nevada by
Browning, Izard, Franklin, Izard, it looks like,
Franklin City, Izard County by Boyd, Saline by
Boyd, Saline by Boyd, White by Daniel, Ouachita by
Hogg, Woodruff by G.D. Clements, Columbia by H.T.
Hawkins, Fulton by Boyd, Clark by Browning,
Randolph by Carter, Randolph by Carter,
Craighead by Steele, Calhoun by Hogg, Pulaski by
Boyd, Craighead by Steele, Jackson by Shuford,
Pike by Scarfu, W-H-S-C-R-A-F-E,
or it might be Scrass, S-C-R-A-S-S-E, or
Scorsese, S-C-R-S-S-E. Pike, and he also
organized Howard. 67, Jefferson by Curling,
Pulaski by Boyd, Severed by Scrass or Scarp,
Howard by Scrass, Hempstead by Scrass, Clark by
Browning, Hempstead by Scrass, El Dorado and
Hillsborough, whatever county they're located
in. It looks like Marion or Union probably by
Avera, Cross by Steele, Arkansas by Matthews,
Arkansas by Matthews, Columbia by Henry T.
Hawkins, Pulaski by G.D. Boyd, Columbia by
Hawkins, Hot Springs by Scrass, Jackson by W.S.
Shuford, Calhoun by Hogg, Nevada by Avera,
Jefferson by Curling, Clark by Browning, Jackson
by Shuford, Calhoun by Hogg, Lee by Duffy, Selene
by Boyd, Lawrence by Wickershawn, Faulkner by
Boyd, Conway by Boyd, Faulkner by Boyd, Marion by
Boyd, Darcy
by Wilson, Sharp by Owen, Washita
by Wickershawn, Arkansas by Avera, Calhoun by
Matthews, Calhoun by L.J. Hogg, White by Hogg,
White by P.H. Benton, Pike by J.R. Copeland,
Pike by Copeland, Faulkner by Freeman, Arkansas
by Matthews.